.\" Copyright (C) 2013-24 Kevin Boone 
.\" Permission is granted to any individual or institution to use, copy, or
.\" redistribute this software so long as all of the original files are
.\" included, and that this copyright notice is retained.
.\"
.TH epub2txt 1 "September 2024"
.SH NAME
epub2txt \- Extract text from EPUB documents 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B epub2txt 
.RB [options]\ {files...} 
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIepub2txt\fR is simple utility for extracting text from EPUB
documents. It is mainly intended for reading EPUB e-books on systems
that cannot run a graphical EPUB viewer, and favours speed over
optimal rendering of complex layout.

The output is to \fIstdout\fR; if multiple files are specified,
they are simply processed sequentially. Unless otherwise specified,
the character encoding of the output is the same as for the EPUB
source, which is invariably UTF-8. However, \fIepub2txt\fR can
attempt to output plain ASCII if required.


.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI -a,\-\-ascii
Converts Unicode characters in the EPUB document that have close
ASCII equivalents to ASCII. 
For example, the Unicode left single quote is similar to
an ASCII straight quote. This option is intended for use when feeding
the output of \fIepub2txt\fR into another utility that cannot deal
with properly UTF8 encoding. However, many Unicode characters
have no ASCII equivalents.
.LP
.TP
.BI -d,\-\-debug {0-4}
Set the level of debugging information, from 0 (none) to
4 (extremely detailed tracing).
.LP
.TP
.BI -m,\-\-meta
Output document meta-data: title, creator, description, etc.
.LP
.TP
.BI -n,\-\-noansi
Do not use ANSI terminal highlighting, even when running in
a terminal. Some pagers, e.g., \fImore\fR do not always
handle ANSI codes properly .
.LP
.TP
.BI \-\-notext
Do not output the document body. At present, useful only with
\fI--meta\fR.
.LP
.TP
.BI -r,\-\-raw
No formatting at all. This mode is different to setting
unlimited width (\fI-w\ 0\fR) in that whitespace is not trimmed, 
successive empty lines are not collapsed, and \fI--noansi\fR 
is implied. This is the fastest way to extract text, and is appropriate
when feeding output to an external formatter such as \fIgroff\fR.
.LP
.TP
.BI -s,\-\-separator=text
Write the specified text to stdout before decoding each spine item.
This option is intended to help users who want to split the output
of \fIepub2txt\fR into chapters using scripts.
.LP
.TP
.BI -w,\-\-width {columns}
Format the output to fit into a specified width. If this option 
is
omitted, the width is determined from the terminal, if possible.
If not, then the width defaults to 80 characters. If 
the width is set to zero or less,  
then the output is assumed to be of
unlimited width. Setting unlimited width can be useful in
situations where the output is being processed
by another application. 
.LP
.TP
.BI -v,\-\-version
Displays the version and copyright information.
.LP

.SH AUTHOR AND LEGAL
\fIepub2txt\fR
is maintained by Kevin Boone, with contributions from others, 
and is open source under the
terms of the GNU Public Licence, version 3.0. There is no warranty
of any kind.


.\" end of file
